.agent/workflows/draft-research-paper.md, before:

---
description: A workflow to automatically draft a professional research paper in markdown based on a research idea.
---

# Research Paper Drafting Workflow

Follow these steps to turn a research idea into a structured paper:

1.  **Context Gathering**:
    - Identify the finalized research idea (V2) or the most recent research proposal from the conversation history or logs.
    - Read relevant codebase files (like `optimizers/` or `models/`) to ensure the paper reflects the current implementation context.

2.  **Drafting**:
    - Use the `paper-drafter` skill to generate a comprehensive markdown paper.
    - Target sections: Abstract, Introduction, Methodology (with full math), and Proposed Experiments.

3. **Autonomous Review**:
    - Use the `paper-reviewer` skill to critique the overall draft.
    - Specifically check for undergraduate accessibility and mathematical depth.

4. **Abstract Deep-Dive**:
    - Use the `abstract-reviewer` skill to find anything "weird", "unclear", or "iffy" in the abstract.
    - Focus heavily on jargon explanation and intuitive flow.

5. **Autonomous Revision**:
    - Use the `paper-revisor` skill to integrate BOTH the paper review and the abstract review.
    - Ensure the abstract is now 100% crystal clear and jargon-explained.

6. **File Creation**:
    - Save the final improved paper to the `docs/papers/` directory.
    - Name the file based on the research idea (e.g., `curvature_aware_muon.md`).

6. **Verification**:
    - Confirm the file has been created and provide a summary of what was improved in this final version.

Commit message:

feat: Enhance research paper drafting workflow with autonomous idea generation and human approval, refine the curvature-aware muon paper for clarity, and remove outdated model documentation and TODOs.

.agent/workflows/draft-research-paper.md, after:

---
description: A workflow to automatically draft a professional research paper in markdown based on a research idea.
---

# Research Paper Drafting Workflow

Follow these steps to turn a research idea into a structured paper from scratch:

1.  **Idea Generation**: 
    - Use the `ai-research-innovator` skill to analyze the code/file at hand.
    - Generate 3-5 original, mathematically-grounded ideas with accessible explanations.

2.  **Autonomous Idea Selection & Review**: 
    - Identify the most promising idea from the list (highest novelty and impact potential).
    - Immediately use the `idea-reviewer` skill to critique this specific idea based on Novelty, Feasibility, Impact, Math Rigor, and Alignment.

3.  **Autonomous Idea Refinement**: 
    - Take the reviewer's critique and use the `idea-revisor` skill to generate a "V2" of the proposal.
    - Ensure the final math is robust and the explanation is social-media ready.

4.  **Drafting**:
    - Use the `paper-drafter` skill to expand the V2 idea into a comprehensive markdown paper.
    - Target sections: Abstract, Introduction, Methodology (with full math), and Proposed Experiments.
    - Ensure authors are listed as **Vuk Rosić and Gemini**.

5. **Autonomous Paper Review**:
    - Use the `paper-reviewer` skill to critique the overall draft.
    - Specifically check for undergraduate accessibility and mathematical depth.

6. **Abstract Deep-Dive**:
    - Use the `abstract-reviewer` skill to find anything "weird", "unclear", or "iffy" in the abstract.
    - Focus heavily on jargon explanation and intuitive flow.

7. **Autonomous Revision**:
    - Use the `paper-revisor` skill to integrate BOTH the paper review and the abstract review.
    - Ensure the abstract is now 100% crystal clear and jargon-explained.

8. **File Creation**:
    - Save the final improved paper to the `docs/papers/` directory.
    - Name the file based on the research idea (e.g., `curvature_aware_muon.md`).

9. **Verification & Approval**:
    - Confirm the file has been created.
    - Provide a summary of the final improvements.
    - **MANDATORY**: Explicitly ask the user for approval of the paper draft.
    - **CRITICAL**: Do NOT generate any code or implement the ideas until the human user has reviewed the paper and provided explicit approval to proceed with coding.
